MATH-VIZ: FUNCTION EXPLORER

Introduction:

Math-Viz is a web-based application that illustrates math concepts using interactive graphics; an interactive dashboard and multi-dimensional function analyser.
It is implemented completely in an HTML page (highly efficient) to convert complex algebraic expressions into 2D interactive graphical plots; 3D animated surface plots; and audible sounds produced by sweeping frequency (time-varying frequency).

Core Features:

* Multi-View Graphing System:
  * 2D Graph Canvas: Allows panning, zooming and cross-reference between many overlapped mathematical graphs with the aid of dynamic grid lines.
  * 3D Surface Mesh: Using Three.js library, it can plot any single variable function into a vertex colored interactive 3D terrain with mouse orbit navigation support.
  * Pitch Log (Spectrogram): A visualization that is specifically used for logging moving frequency through the mathematical space.
* Audio Synthesizer & Sweep Timeline Engine: The graph data points ($Y$-axis) are translated to synth line in accordance to time ($X$-axis). Contains configurable Base Pitch setting, adjustable speed, volume controls, and reactive sound bar.
* Expression Morphing System: Transitions smoothly between two different mathematical expressions by applying custom easing animations to the source graph path.
* Instant Function Metrics Calculation: Gives instant calculation metrics in sidebar panel for any selected mathematical expression, such as:
  * Function values ($f(0)$, $f(1)$ ).
  * Local Maximum, Minimum, and Average bounds in viewport.
  * Definite Integration Area ($\int$).
  * Zero crossing (Roots).
  * First derivatives ($f’(0)$, $f’(1)$ ) with monotonicity detection (Increasing/Decreasing/Mixed).

Tech Stack:

* HTML5 / CSS3 / JavaScript: Takes care of the webpage styling, the dark cyberpunk aesthetic, and the logic behind linking the buttons with the charts.
* math.js (CDN): A math library that takes your equations (such as sin(x)) and immediately parses them into numbers that can be computed by the program.
* Three.js (CDN): A 3D rendering library that takes the coordinates generated by the math calculations and creates a vibrant 3D surface that can be rotated.
* Web Audio API: An integrated audio engine of the browser that creates a synthesizer sound wave from scratch, synchronizing its pitch frequency with the height of the graph.

How to Start:

* Just click the Website URL
* OR
* Download the Index File to run it in your browser

License:

This project is open-source and available under the **MIT License.**
